Great cities attract ambitious people. You can sense it when you walk around one. In a hundred subtle ways, the city sends you a message: you could do more; you should try harder.

The surprising thing is how different these messages can be. New York tells you, above all: you should make more money. There are other messages too, of course. You should be hipper. You should be better looking. But the clearest message is that you should be richer.

What I like about Boston (or rather Cambridge) is that the message there is: you should be smarter. You really should get around to reading all those books you've been meaning to.

There are other messages too, of course. You should be more active in extracurricular activities, like sports or clubs, or else get a job. Particularly if you're in one of the creative industries, like writing or music, or painting, there are a lot of opportunities to work long hours, with no recognition or immediate payoff. You should do what you love – and if you don't love anything, take a job you don't hate too much.

Notice how different are the following two messages:

Do what you love.
Do what we do here.

The second message is that you should emulate us, that we're the model. The first message is that we should each find our own niche. The first implies that weworking harder than we have to. The second implies that were lazy and trying to save ourselves work.

There is surely a slow and gradual progression of changes going on in each. Cities are, after all, full of people, and people are not fixed assets. They can be molded, in other words, to the needs of the moment. But the shape of that progress is mysterious; it is the product of interactions between many individuals.

The only way to keep up is to watch for small signs of change. Look for the little changes in the urban environment that signal a change in what the city is about. New restaurants, for instance. At a restaurant with tables, they make you wait. But waiting tables is not one of the jobs the city has available to its ambitious citizens.

And while they probably have bigger ambitions now, this alone brings them a billion dollars a year. This was not something I wanted to support. I'm not saying that if you get a good idea you should apply to Y Combinator. I'm saying that if you're the sort of person who gets good ideas, you should probably make your own funding. The lesson is to keep trying.